components/ofi/man/fi_fabric.3.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: fi_fabric(3)
tagline: Libfabric Programmer's Manual
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# NAME

fi_fabric \- Fabric domain operations

fi_fabric / fi_close
: Open / close a fabric domain

fi_tostr
: Convert fabric attributes, flags, and capabilities to printable string

# SYNOPSIS

{% highlight c %}
#include <rdma/fabric.h>

int fi_fabric(struct fi_fabric_attr *attr,
    struct fid_fabric **fabric, void *context);

int fi_close(struct fid *fabric);

char * fi_tostr(const void *data, enum fi_type datatype);
{% endhighlight %}

# ARGUMENTS

*attr*
: Attributes of fabric to open.

*fabric*
: Fabric domain

*context*
: User specified context associated with the opened object.  This
  context is returned as part of any associated asynchronous event.

# DESCRIPTION

A fabric domain represents a collection of hardware and software
resources that access a single physical or virtual network.  All
network ports on a system that can communicate with each other through
their attached networks belong to the same fabric domain.  A fabric
domain shares network addresses and can span multiple providers.

## fi_fabric

Opens a fabric provider.  The attributes of the fabric provider are
specified through the open call, and may be obtained by calling
fi_getinfo.

## fi_close

The fi_close call is used to release all resources associated with a
fabric domain or interface.  All items associated with the opened
fabric must be released prior to calling fi_close.

## fi_tostr

Converts fabric interface attributes, capabilities, flags, and enum
values into a printable string.  The data parameter accepts a pointer
to the attribute or value(s) to display, with the datatype parameter
indicating the type of data referenced by the data parameter.  Valid
values for the datatype are listed below, along with the corresponding
datatype or field value.

*FI_TYPE_INFO*
: struct fi_info

*FI_TYPE_EP_TYPE*
: struct fi_info::type field

*FI_TYPE_EP_CAP*
: struct fi_info::ep_cap field

*FI_TYPE_OP_FLAGS*
: struct fi_info::op_flags field, or general uint64_t flags

*FI_TYPE_ADDR_FORMAT*
: struct fi_info::addr_format field

*FI_TYPE_TX_ATTR*
: struct fi_tx_attr

*FI_TYPE_RX_ATTR*
: struct fi_rx_attr

*FI_TYPE_EP_ATTR*
: struct fi_ep_attr

*FI_TYPE_DOMAIN_ATTR*
: struct fi_domain_attr

*FI_TYPE_FABRIC_ATTR*
: struct fi_fabric_attr

*FI_TYPE_DOMAIN_CAP*
: struct fi_info::domain_cap field

*FI_TYPE_THREADING*
: enum fi_threading

*FI_TYPE_PROGRESS*
: enum fi_progress

*FI_TYPE_PROTO*
: struct fi_ep_attr::protocol field

*FI_TYPE_MSG_ORDER*
: struct fi_ep_attr::msg_order field

# NOTES

The following resources are associated with fabric domains: access
domains, passive endpoints, and CM event queues.

# FABRIC ATTRIBUTES

The fi_fabric_attr structure defines the set of attributes associated
with a fabric and a fabric provider.

{% highlight c %}
struct fi_fabric_attr {
	struct fid_fabric *fabric;
	char              *name;
	char              *prov_name;
	uint32_t          prov_version;
};
{% endhighlight %}

## fabric

On input to fi_getinfo, a user may set this to an opened fabric
instance to restrict output to the given fabric.  On output from
fi_getinfo, if no fabric was specified, but the user has an opened
instance of the named fabric, this will reference the first opened
instance.  If no instance has been opened, this field will be NULL.

## name

A fabric identifier.

## prov_name

The name of the underlying fabric provider.

## prov_version

Version information for the fabric provider.

# RETURN VALUE

Returns 0 on success. On error, a negative value corresponding to
fabric errno is returned. Fabric errno values are defined in
`rdma/fi_errno.h`.

# ERRORS


# SEE ALSO

[`fi_fabric`(7)](fi_fabric.7.html),
[`fi_getinfo`(3)](fi_getinfo.3.html),
[`fi_domain`(3)](fi_domain.3.html),
[`fi_eq`(3)](fi_eq.3.html),
[`fi_endpoint`(3)](fi_endpoint.3.html)

Commit message:

fi_tostr: do not use thread-specific data
Take inspiration from strerror(): just declare that fi_tostr() is not
thread safe.  Do not use __thread, because it is a GCC extension (and
it's not worth using pthread function calls to make portable thread
safe data).

Signed-off-by: Jeff Squyres <jsquyres@cisco.com>

components/ofi/man/fi_fabric.3.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: fi_fabric(3)
tagline: Libfabric Programmer's Manual
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# NAME

fi_fabric \- Fabric domain operations

fi_fabric / fi_close
: Open / close a fabric domain

fi_tostr
: Convert fabric attributes, flags, and capabilities to printable string

# SYNOPSIS

{% highlight c %}
#include <rdma/fabric.h>

int fi_fabric(struct fi_fabric_attr *attr,
    struct fid_fabric **fabric, void *context);

int fi_close(struct fid *fabric);

char * fi_tostr(const void *data, enum fi_type datatype);
{% endhighlight %}

# ARGUMENTS

*attr*
: Attributes of fabric to open.

*fabric*
: Fabric domain

*context*
: User specified context associated with the opened object.  This
  context is returned as part of any associated asynchronous event.

# DESCRIPTION

A fabric domain represents a collection of hardware and software
resources that access a single physical or virtual network.  All
network ports on a system that can communicate with each other through
their attached networks belong to the same fabric domain.  A fabric
domain shares network addresses and can span multiple providers.

## fi_fabric

Opens a fabric provider.  The attributes of the fabric provider are
specified through the open call, and may be obtained by calling
fi_getinfo.

## fi_close

The fi_close call is used to release all resources associated with a
fabric domain or interface.  All items associated with the opened
fabric must be released prior to calling fi_close.

## fi_tostr

Converts fabric interface attributes, capabilities, flags, and enum
values into a printable string.  The data parameter accepts a pointer
to the attribute or value(s) to display, with the datatype parameter
indicating the type of data referenced by the data parameter.  Valid
values for the datatype are listed below, along with the corresponding
datatype or field value.

*FI_TYPE_INFO*
: struct fi_info

*FI_TYPE_EP_TYPE*
: struct fi_info::type field

*FI_TYPE_EP_CAP*
: struct fi_info::ep_cap field

*FI_TYPE_OP_FLAGS*
: struct fi_info::op_flags field, or general uint64_t flags

*FI_TYPE_ADDR_FORMAT*
: struct fi_info::addr_format field

*FI_TYPE_TX_ATTR*
: struct fi_tx_attr

*FI_TYPE_RX_ATTR*
: struct fi_rx_attr

*FI_TYPE_EP_ATTR*
: struct fi_ep_attr

*FI_TYPE_DOMAIN_ATTR*
: struct fi_domain_attr

*FI_TYPE_FABRIC_ATTR*
: struct fi_fabric_attr

*FI_TYPE_DOMAIN_CAP*
: struct fi_info::domain_cap field

*FI_TYPE_THREADING*
: enum fi_threading

*FI_TYPE_PROGRESS*
: enum fi_progress

*FI_TYPE_PROTO*
: struct fi_ep_attr::protocol field

*FI_TYPE_MSG_ORDER*
: struct fi_ep_attr::msg_order field

fi_tostr() will return a pointer to an internal libfabric buffer that
should not be modified, and will be overwritten the next time
fi_tostr() is invoked.  fi_tostr() is not thread safe.

# NOTES

The following resources are associated with fabric domains: access
domains, passive endpoints, and CM event queues.

# FABRIC ATTRIBUTES

The fi_fabric_attr structure defines the set of attributes associated
with a fabric and a fabric provider.

{% highlight c %}
struct fi_fabric_attr {
	struct fid_fabric *fabric;
	char              *name;
	char              *prov_name;
	uint32_t          prov_version;
};
{% endhighlight %}

## fabric

On input to fi_getinfo, a user may set this to an opened fabric
instance to restrict output to the given fabric.  On output from
fi_getinfo, if no fabric was specified, but the user has an opened
instance of the named fabric, this will reference the first opened
instance.  If no instance has been opened, this field will be NULL.

## name

A fabric identifier.

## prov_name

The name of the underlying fabric provider.

## prov_version

Version information for the fabric provider.

# RETURN VALUE

Returns 0 on success. On error, a negative value corresponding to
fabric errno is returned. Fabric errno values are defined in
`rdma/fi_errno.h`.

# ERRORS


# SEE ALSO

[`fi_fabric`(7)](fi_fabric.7.html),
[`fi_getinfo`(3)](fi_getinfo.3.html),
[`fi_domain`(3)](fi_domain.3.html),
[`fi_eq`(3)](fi_eq.3.html),
[`fi_endpoint`(3)](fi_endpoint.3.html)
