components/ofi/man/fi_tagged.3.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: fi_tagged(3)
tagline: Libfabric Programmer's Manual
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# NAME

fi_tagged \- Tagged data transfer operations

fi_trecv / fi_trecvv / fi_trecvmsg
:   Post a buffer to receive an incoming message

fi_tsend / fi_tsendv / fi_tsendmsg  
fi_tinject / fi_tsenddata
:   Initiate an operation to send a message

fi_tsearch
:   Initiate a search operation for a buffered receive matching a given tag

# SYNOPSIS

{% highlight c %}
#include <rdma/fi_tagged.h>

ssize_t fi_trecv(struct fid_ep *ep, void *buf, size_t len, void *desc,
	fi_addr_t src_addr, uint64_t tag, uint64_t ignore, void *context);

ssize_t fi_trecvv(struct fid_ep *ep, const struct iovec *iov, void *desc,
	size_t count, fi_addr_t src_addr, uint64_t tag, uint4_t ignore,
	void *context);

ssize_t fi_trecvmsg(struct fid_ep *ep, const struct fi_msg_tagged *msg,
	uint64_t flags);

ssize_t fi_tsend(struct fid_ep *ep, const void *buf, size_t len,
	void *desc, fi_addr_t dest_addr, uint64_t tag, void *context);

ssize_t fi_tsendv(struct fid_ep *ep, const struct iovec *iov,
	void *desc, size_t count, fi_addr_t dest_addr, uint64_t tag,
	void *context);

ssize_t fi_tsendmsg(struct fid_ep *ep, const struct fi_msg_tagged *msg,
	uint64_t flags);

ssize_t fi_tinject(struct fid_ep *ep, const void *buf, size_t len,
	fi_addr_t dest_addr, uint64_t tag);

ssize_t fi_tsenddata(struct fid_ep *ep, const void *buf, size_t len,
	void *desc, uint64_t data, fi_addr_t dest_addr, uint64_t tag,
	void *context);

ssize_t fi_tsearch(struct fid_ep *ep, uint64_t *tag, uint64_t ignore,
	uint64_t flags, void *src_addr, size_t *src_addrlen,
	size_t *len, void *context);
{% endhighlight %}

# ARGUMENTS

*fid*
: Fabric endpoint on which to initiate tagged communication operation.

*buf*
: Data buffer to send or receive.

*len*
: Length of data buffer to send or receive.

*iov*
: Vectored data buffer.

*count*
: Count of vectored data entries.

*tag*
: Tag associated with the message.

*ignore*
: Mask of bits to ignore applied to the tag for receive operations.

*desc*
: Memory descriptor associated with the data buffer

*data*
: Remote CQ data to transfer with the sent data.

*dest_addr*
: Destination address for connectionless transfers.  Ignored for
  connected endpoints.

*src_addr*
: Source address to receive from for connectionless transfers.  Ignored
  for connected endpoints.

*msg*
: Message descriptor for send and receive operations.

*flags*
: Additional flags to apply for the send or receive operation.

*context*
: User specified pointer to associate with the operation.

# DESCRIPTION

Tagged messages are data transfers which carry a key or tag with the
message buffer.  The tag is used at the receiving endpoint to match
the incoming message with a corresponding receive buffer.  Message
tags match when the receive buffer tag is the same as the send buffer
tag with the ignored bits masked out.  This can be stated as:

{% highlight c %}
send_tag & ~ignore == recv_tag & ~ignore
{% endhighlight %}

In general, message tags are checked against receive buffers in the
order in which messages have been posted to the endpoint.  See the
ordering discussion below for more details.

The send functions -- fi_tsend, fi_tsendv, fi_tsendmsg,
fi_tinject, and fi_tsenddata -- are used
to transmit a tagged message from one endpoint to another endpoint.
The main difference between send functions are the number and type of
parameters that they accept as input.  Otherwise, they perform the
same general function.

The receive functions -- fi_trecv, fi_trecvv, fi_recvmsg
-- post a data buffer to an endpoint to receive inbound tagged
messages.  Similar to the send operations, receive operations operate
asynchronously.  Users should not touch the posted data buffer(s)
until the receive operation has completed.  Posted receive buffers are
matched with inbound send messages based on the tags associated with
the send and receive buffers.

Completed message operations are reported to the user through one or
more event collectors associated with the endpoint.  Users provide
context which are associated with each operation, and is returned to
the user as part of the event completion.  See fi_eq for completion
event details.

## fi_tsend

The call fi_tsend transfers the data contained in the user-specified
data buffer to a remote endpoint, with message boundaries being
maintained.  The local endpoint must be connected to a remote endpoint
or destination before fi_tsend is called.  Unless the endpoint has
been configured differently, the data buffer passed into fi_tsend must
not be touched by the application until the fi_tsend call completes
asynchronously.

## fi_tsendv

The fi_tsendv call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_tsend.
The fi_sendv transfers the set of data buffers
referenced by the iov parameter to a remote endpoint as a single
message.

## fi_tsendmsg

The fi_tsendmsg call supports data transfers over both connected and
unconnected endpoints, with the ability to control the send operation
per call through the use of flags.  The fi_tsendmsg function takes a
struct fi_msg_tagged as input.

{% highlight c %}
struct fi_msg_tagged {
	const struct iovec *msg_iov; /* scatter-gather array */
	void               *desc;    /* data descriptor */
	size_t             iov_count;/* # elements in msg_iov *
	const void         *addr;    /* optional endpoint address */
	uint64_t           tag;      /* tag associated with message */
	uint64_t           ignore;   /* mask applied to tag for receives */
	void               *context; /* user-defined context */
	uint64_t           data;     /* optional immediate data */
};
{% endhighlight %}

## fi_tinject

The tagged inject call is an optimized version of fi_tsend.  The
fi_tinject function behaves as if the FI_INJECT transfer flag were
set, and FI_COMPLETION were not.  That is, the data buffer is
available for reuse immediately on returning from from fi_tinject, and
no completion event will be generated for this send.  The completion
event will be suppressed even if the endpoint has not been configured
with FI_COMPLETION.  See the flags discussion below for more details.

## fi_tsenddata

The tagged send data call is similar to fi_tsend, but allows for the
sending of remote CQ data (see FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA flag) as part of the
transfer.

## fi_trecv

The fi_trecv call posts a data buffer to the receive queue of the
corresponding endpoint.  Posted receives are searched in the order in
which they were posted in order to match sends.  Message boundaries are
maintained.  The order in which the receives complete is dependent on
the endpoint type and protocol.

## fi_trecvv

The fi_trecvv call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_trecv.
The fi_trecvv posts the set of data buffers referenced by the iov
parameter to a receive incoming data.

## fi_trecvmsg

The fi_trecvmsg call supports posting buffers over both connected and
unconnected endpoints, with the ability to control the receive
operation per call through the use of flags.  The fi_trecvmsg function
takes a struct fi_msg_tagged as input.

## fi_tsearch

The function fi_tsearch determines if a message with the specified tag
with ignore mask from an optionally supplied source address has been
received and is buffered by the provider.  The fi_tsearch call is only
available on endpoints with FI_BUFFERED_RECV enabled.  The fi_tsearch
operation may complete asynchronously or immediately, depending on the
underlying provider implementation.

By default, a single message may be matched by multiple search
operations.  The user can restrict a message to matching with a single
fi_tsearch call by using the FI_CLAIM flag to control the search.
When set, FI_CLAIM indicates that when a search successfully finds a
matching message, the message is claimed by caller. Subsequent
searches cannot find the same message, although they may match other
messages that have the same tag.

# FLAGS

The fi_trecvmsg and fi_tsendmsg calls allow the user to specify flags
which can change the default message handling of the endpoint.  Flags
specified with fi_trecvmsg / fi_tsendmsg override most flags
previously configured with the endpoint, except where noted (see
fi_endpoint).  The following list of flags are usable with fi_trecvmsg
and/or fi_tsendmsg.

*FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA*
: Applies to fi_tsendmsg and fi_tsenddata.  Indicates
  that remote CQ data is available and should be sent as part of the
  request.  See fi_getinfo for additional details on
  FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA.

*FI_COMPLETION*
: Indicates that a completion entry should be generated for the
  specified operation.  The endpoint must be bound to an event queue
  with FI_COMPLETION that corresponds to the specified operation, or
  this flag is ignored.

*FI_MORE*
: Indicates that the user has additional requests that will
  immediately be posted after the current call returns.  Use of this
  flag may improve performance by enabling the provider to optimize
  its access to the fabric hardware.

*FI_REMOTE_SIGNAL*
: Indicates that a completion event at the target process should be
  generated for the given operation.  The remote endpoint must be
  configured with FI_REMOTE_SIGNAL, or this flag will be ignored by
  the target.

*FI_INJECT*
: Applies to fi_tsendmsg.  Indicates that the outbound data buffer
  should be returned to user immediately after the send call returns,
  even if the operation is handled asynchronously.  This may require
  that the underlying provider implementation copy the data into a
  local buffer and transfer out of that buffer.

*FI_REMOTE_COMPLETE*
: Applies to fi_tsendmsg.  Indicates that a completion should not be
  generated until the operation has completed on the remote side.

The following flags may be used with fi_tsearch.

*FI_CLAIM*
: Indicates that when a search successfully finds a matching message,
  the message is claimed by caller. Subsequent searches cannot find
  the same message, although they may match other messages that have
  the same tag.

# RETURN VALUE

The tagged send and receive calls return 0 on success.  On error, a
negative value corresponding to fabric _errno _ is returned. Fabric
errno values are defined in `fi_errno.h`.

The fi_tsearch calls returns 0 if the search was successfully
initiated asynchronously.  In this case, the result of the search will
be reported through the event collector associated with the endpoint.
If the search completes immediately, fi_tsearch will return 1, with
information about the matching receive returned through the len, tag,
src_addr, and src_addrlen parameters.

# ERRORS

*-FI_ENOMSG*
: Returned by fi_tsearch on an immediate completion, but no matching
  message was located.

*-FI_EAGAIN*
: Indicates that the underlying provider currently lacks the resources
  needed to initiate the requested operation.  This may be the result
  of insufficient internal buffering, in the case of FI_INJECT,
  or processing queues are full.  The operation may be retried after
  additional provider resources become available, usually through the
  completion of currently outstanding operations.

*-FI_EINVAL*
: Indicates that an invalid argument was supplied by the user.

*-FI_EOTHER*
: Indicates that an unspecified error occurred.

# NOTES


## Any source

The function fi_trecv() may be used to receive a message from a
specific source address.  If the user wishes to receive a message from
any source on an unconnected fabric endpoint the function fi_recv()
may be used, or fi_trecv() may be used with the src_addr set to a
wildcard address that has been inserted into an address vector.  See
fi_av.3 for more details.

## Ordering

The order in which tags are matched is only defined for a pair of
sending and receiving endpoints.  The ordering is defined by the
underlying protocol.  If a specific protocol is not selected for an
endpoint, the libfabric implementation will choose a protocol that
satisfies the following requirement from the MPI-3.0 specification
(page 41, lines 1-5):

> If a sender sends two messages in succession to the same
> destination, and both match the same receive, then this operation
> cannot receive the second message if the first one is still pending.
> If a receiver posts two receives in succession, and both match the
> same message, then the second receive operation cannot be satisfied
> by this message, if the first one is still pending.

# SEE ALSO

[`fi_getinfo`(3)](fi_getinfo.3.html),
[`fi_endpoint`(3)](fi_endpoint.3.html),
[`fi_domain`(3)](fi_domain.3.html),
[`fi_eq`(3)](fi_eq.3.html)

Commit message:

fabric: Define FI_ADDR_UNSPEC to mean any source
When posting a receive buffer, allow the user to indicate
that it can match with any source address by using
FI_ADDR_UNSPEC as the src_addr.

Also define an EP capability to indicate whether source
directed receives is required and/or supported by the
provider.

Signed-off-by: Sean Hefty <sean.hefty@intel.com>

components/ofi/man/fi_tagged.3.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: fi_tagged(3)
tagline: Libfabric Programmer's Manual
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# NAME

fi_tagged \- Tagged data transfer operations

fi_trecv / fi_trecvv / fi_trecvmsg
:   Post a buffer to receive an incoming message

fi_tsend / fi_tsendv / fi_tsendmsg  
fi_tinject / fi_tsenddata
:   Initiate an operation to send a message

fi_tsearch
:   Initiate a search operation for a buffered receive matching a given tag

# SYNOPSIS

{% highlight c %}
#include <rdma/fi_tagged.h>

ssize_t fi_trecv(struct fid_ep *ep, void *buf, size_t len, void *desc,
	fi_addr_t src_addr, uint64_t tag, uint64_t ignore, void *context);

ssize_t fi_trecvv(struct fid_ep *ep, const struct iovec *iov, void *desc,
	size_t count, fi_addr_t src_addr, uint64_t tag, uint4_t ignore,
	void *context);

ssize_t fi_trecvmsg(struct fid_ep *ep, const struct fi_msg_tagged *msg,
	uint64_t flags);

ssize_t fi_tsend(struct fid_ep *ep, const void *buf, size_t len,
	void *desc, fi_addr_t dest_addr, uint64_t tag, void *context);

ssize_t fi_tsendv(struct fid_ep *ep, const struct iovec *iov,
	void *desc, size_t count, fi_addr_t dest_addr, uint64_t tag,
	void *context);

ssize_t fi_tsendmsg(struct fid_ep *ep, const struct fi_msg_tagged *msg,
	uint64_t flags);

ssize_t fi_tinject(struct fid_ep *ep, const void *buf, size_t len,
	fi_addr_t dest_addr, uint64_t tag);

ssize_t fi_tsenddata(struct fid_ep *ep, const void *buf, size_t len,
	void *desc, uint64_t data, fi_addr_t dest_addr, uint64_t tag,
	void *context);

ssize_t fi_tsearch(struct fid_ep *ep, uint64_t *tag, uint64_t ignore,
	uint64_t flags, void *src_addr, size_t *src_addrlen,
	size_t *len, void *context);
{% endhighlight %}

# ARGUMENTS

*fid*
: Fabric endpoint on which to initiate tagged communication operation.

*buf*
: Data buffer to send or receive.

*len*
: Length of data buffer to send or receive.

*iov*
: Vectored data buffer.

*count*
: Count of vectored data entries.

*tag*
: Tag associated with the message.

*ignore*
: Mask of bits to ignore applied to the tag for receive operations.

*desc*
: Memory descriptor associated with the data buffer

*data*
: Remote CQ data to transfer with the sent data.

*dest_addr*
: Destination address for connectionless transfers.  Ignored for
  connected endpoints.

*src_addr*
: Source address to receive from for connectionless transfers.  Applies
  only to connectionless endpoints with the FI_DIRECTED_RECV capability
  enabled, otherwise this field is ignored.  If set to FI_ADDR_UNSPEC,
  any source address may match.

*msg*
: Message descriptor for send and receive operations.

*flags*
: Additional flags to apply for the send or receive operation.

*context*
: User specified pointer to associate with the operation.

# DESCRIPTION

Tagged messages are data transfers which carry a key or tag with the
message buffer.  The tag is used at the receiving endpoint to match
the incoming message with a corresponding receive buffer.  Message
tags match when the receive buffer tag is the same as the send buffer
tag with the ignored bits masked out.  This can be stated as:

{% highlight c %}
send_tag & ~ignore == recv_tag & ~ignore
{% endhighlight %}

In general, message tags are checked against receive buffers in the
order in which messages have been posted to the endpoint.  See the
ordering discussion below for more details.

The send functions -- fi_tsend, fi_tsendv, fi_tsendmsg,
fi_tinject, and fi_tsenddata -- are used
to transmit a tagged message from one endpoint to another endpoint.
The main difference between send functions are the number and type of
parameters that they accept as input.  Otherwise, they perform the
same general function.

The receive functions -- fi_trecv, fi_trecvv, fi_recvmsg
-- post a data buffer to an endpoint to receive inbound tagged
messages.  Similar to the send operations, receive operations operate
asynchronously.  Users should not touch the posted data buffer(s)
until the receive operation has completed.  Posted receive buffers are
matched with inbound send messages based on the tags associated with
the send and receive buffers.

Completed message operations are reported to the user through one or
more event collectors associated with the endpoint.  Users provide
context which are associated with each operation, and is returned to
the user as part of the event completion.  See fi_eq for completion
event details.

## fi_tsend

The call fi_tsend transfers the data contained in the user-specified
data buffer to a remote endpoint, with message boundaries being
maintained.  The local endpoint must be connected to a remote endpoint
or destination before fi_tsend is called.  Unless the endpoint has
been configured differently, the data buffer passed into fi_tsend must
not be touched by the application until the fi_tsend call completes
asynchronously.

## fi_tsendv

The fi_tsendv call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_tsend.
The fi_sendv transfers the set of data buffers
referenced by the iov parameter to a remote endpoint as a single
message.

## fi_tsendmsg

The fi_tsendmsg call supports data transfers over both connected and
unconnected endpoints, with the ability to control the send operation
per call through the use of flags.  The fi_tsendmsg function takes a
struct fi_msg_tagged as input.

{% highlight c %}
struct fi_msg_tagged {
	const struct iovec *msg_iov; /* scatter-gather array */
	void               *desc;    /* data descriptor */
	size_t             iov_count;/* # elements in msg_iov *
	const void         *addr;    /* optional endpoint address */
	uint64_t           tag;      /* tag associated with message */
	uint64_t           ignore;   /* mask applied to tag for receives */
	void               *context; /* user-defined context */
	uint64_t           data;     /* optional immediate data */
};
{% endhighlight %}

## fi_tinject

The tagged inject call is an optimized version of fi_tsend.  The
fi_tinject function behaves as if the FI_INJECT transfer flag were
set, and FI_COMPLETION were not.  That is, the data buffer is
available for reuse immediately on returning from from fi_tinject, and
no completion event will be generated for this send.  The completion
event will be suppressed even if the endpoint has not been configured
with FI_COMPLETION.  See the flags discussion below for more details.

## fi_tsenddata

The tagged send data call is similar to fi_tsend, but allows for the
sending of remote CQ data (see FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA flag) as part of the
transfer.

## fi_trecv

The fi_trecv call posts a data buffer to the receive queue of the
corresponding endpoint.  Posted receives are searched in the order in
which they were posted in order to match sends.  Message boundaries are
maintained.  The order in which the receives complete is dependent on
the endpoint type and protocol.

## fi_trecvv

The fi_trecvv call adds support for a scatter-gather list to fi_trecv.
The fi_trecvv posts the set of data buffers referenced by the iov
parameter to a receive incoming data.

## fi_trecvmsg

The fi_trecvmsg call supports posting buffers over both connected and
unconnected endpoints, with the ability to control the receive
operation per call through the use of flags.  The fi_trecvmsg function
takes a struct fi_msg_tagged as input.

## fi_tsearch

The function fi_tsearch determines if a message with the specified tag
with ignore mask from an optionally supplied source address has been
received and is buffered by the provider.  The fi_tsearch call is only
available on endpoints with FI_BUFFERED_RECV enabled.  The fi_tsearch
operation may complete asynchronously or immediately, depending on the
underlying provider implementation.

By default, a single message may be matched by multiple search
operations.  The user can restrict a message to matching with a single
fi_tsearch call by using the FI_CLAIM flag to control the search.
When set, FI_CLAIM indicates that when a search successfully finds a
matching message, the message is claimed by caller. Subsequent
searches cannot find the same message, although they may match other
messages that have the same tag.

# FLAGS

The fi_trecvmsg and fi_tsendmsg calls allow the user to specify flags
which can change the default message handling of the endpoint.  Flags
specified with fi_trecvmsg / fi_tsendmsg override most flags
previously configured with the endpoint, except where noted (see
fi_endpoint).  The following list of flags are usable with fi_trecvmsg
and/or fi_tsendmsg.

*FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA*
: Applies to fi_tsendmsg and fi_tsenddata.  Indicates
  that remote CQ data is available and should be sent as part of the
  request.  See fi_getinfo for additional details on
  FI_REMOTE_CQ_DATA.

*FI_COMPLETION*
: Indicates that a completion entry should be generated for the
  specified operation.  The endpoint must be bound to an event queue
  with FI_COMPLETION that corresponds to the specified operation, or
  this flag is ignored.

*FI_MORE*
: Indicates that the user has additional requests that will
  immediately be posted after the current call returns.  Use of this
  flag may improve performance by enabling the provider to optimize
  its access to the fabric hardware.

*FI_REMOTE_SIGNAL*
: Indicates that a completion event at the target process should be
  generated for the given operation.  The remote endpoint must be
  configured with FI_REMOTE_SIGNAL, or this flag will be ignored by
  the target.

*FI_INJECT*
: Applies to fi_tsendmsg.  Indicates that the outbound data buffer
  should be returned to user immediately after the send call returns,
  even if the operation is handled asynchronously.  This may require
  that the underlying provider implementation copy the data into a
  local buffer and transfer out of that buffer.

*FI_REMOTE_COMPLETE*
: Applies to fi_tsendmsg.  Indicates that a completion should not be
  generated until the operation has completed on the remote side.

The following flags may be used with fi_tsearch.

*FI_CLAIM*
: Indicates that when a search successfully finds a matching message,
  the message is claimed by caller. Subsequent searches cannot find
  the same message, although they may match other messages that have
  the same tag.

# RETURN VALUE

The tagged send and receive calls return 0 on success.  On error, a
negative value corresponding to fabric _errno _ is returned. Fabric
errno values are defined in `fi_errno.h`.

The fi_tsearch calls returns 0 if the search was successfully
initiated asynchronously.  In this case, the result of the search will
be reported through the event collector associated with the endpoint.
If the search completes immediately, fi_tsearch will return 1, with
information about the matching receive returned through the len, tag,
src_addr, and src_addrlen parameters.

# ERRORS

*-FI_ENOMSG*
: Returned by fi_tsearch on an immediate completion, but no matching
  message was located.

*-FI_EAGAIN*
: Indicates that the underlying provider currently lacks the resources
  needed to initiate the requested operation.  This may be the result
  of insufficient internal buffering, in the case of FI_INJECT,
  or processing queues are full.  The operation may be retried after
  additional provider resources become available, usually through the
  completion of currently outstanding operations.

*-FI_EINVAL*
: Indicates that an invalid argument was supplied by the user.

*-FI_EOTHER*
: Indicates that an unspecified error occurred.

# NOTES


## Any source

The function fi_trecv() may be used to receive a message from a
specific source address.  If the user wishes to receive a message from
any source on an unconnected fabric endpoint the function fi_recv()
may be used, or fi_trecv() may be used with the src_addr set to a
wildcard address that has been inserted into an address vector.  See
fi_av.3 for more details.

## Ordering

The order in which tags are matched is only defined for a pair of
sending and receiving endpoints.  The ordering is defined by the
underlying protocol.  If a specific protocol is not selected for an
endpoint, the libfabric implementation will choose a protocol that
satisfies the following requirement from the MPI-3.0 specification
(page 41, lines 1-5):

> If a sender sends two messages in succession to the same
> destination, and both match the same receive, then this operation
> cannot receive the second message if the first one is still pending.
> If a receiver posts two receives in succession, and both match the
> same message, then the second receive operation cannot be satisfied
> by this message, if the first one is still pending.

# SEE ALSO

[`fi_getinfo`(3)](fi_getinfo.3.html),
[`fi_endpoint`(3)](fi_endpoint.3.html),
[`fi_domain`(3)](fi_domain.3.html),
[`fi_eq`(3)](fi_eq.3.html)
